You've seen multiple operators already and the one we are going to look at now is a membership operator.
When it's called in in Python's membership operator's test for membership in a sequence such as a string
a list or a tuple and there are two membership operators.
One is the n and the other one is not in and we're going to look at the two operators in this in the
next video.
So let's go ahead and start with the in operator defer.
I'm going to create a list of students and I'm going to use my standard list with Max.
Monica then Eric.
And finally Fran Cisco.
All right.
So this is my list and I want to print whether a specific name.
So let's say Monica is within the list and I'm just going to say in students.
So let's execute that.
And as you can see we get the statement through.
Why is that.
Because Monica has a string exactly written as I have it here is within my list students and that's
a pretty cool feature.
So let's check out another line where we check the same thing for another name.
Let's say Moe in students and it's executed.
And as you can see we get the false return because MO is not part of that list.
Now this of course is a very basic and not that useful functionality in this way.
In this version.
But we can use it in a very useful way for example in the if statement so we can just say okay is Monica
in my list students.
And if that is true then please print something like yes.
Monica studies here.
So let's execute that.
And as you can see we get this statement.
Yes Monica studies here.
Now let's check the same thing with Maurits.
So I'm going to copy and paste that code.
So I'm just going to say Mo in students and then I would just say some Valev mo studies you know execute
that and as you can see this statement here is not true.
Samoa is not within students.
And that's what this whole thing doesn't work.
All right now let's check out else here as well because we can use else of course as well.
And Prince on for like no Monica does.
And study here.
Now let's run that for Monica.
There's nothing happening but let's check it out for Mo.
And it's going to say mo doesn't study here no that's printed.
And as you can see no mold doesn't study here.
So this statement here is actually executed because this statement is not true.
So Mo is not within the students and that it by itself is already pretty cool.
But there is something even cooler and that is that this also works for strengths.
So let's check out an example with strings.
Let's write a little sentence sentence.
I'm just going to say yes.
Monica I'm just going to copy the code from here.
Yes.
Monica studies here.
Let's do that.
And let's add an exclamation mark at the end of this very basic sentence.
And I can not check if a particular string is in sentence.
So I'm checking.
Is this sign within the sentence.
And if that is true then I'm just going to print.
Yes.
And actually as a string guess I like that.
Now let's execute that.
And as you can see printing is executed.
Let's check out.
Else.
Print.
No.
And now let's use a different sign.
Let's use a something like is a B in there.
So let's execute.
And as you can see there is no B in this whole sentence or we can even go as far as I know there's no
in the sentence and it says no no he's not in the sentence.
So you can use to add four strings and that is super super useful because now you can simply check if
a specific character or a specific term is within your string and you could use Ted for example to search
for documents because documents in the end are also just drinks.
And it goes for Web sites as well Web sites are usually just documents right.
Or at least the basic concept of web sites the mail code are just documents which you can read and then
you can check if a specific term is in there and execute something if you find that term.
And that will be superpowerful.
All right so that's the in membership.
Operator And we're going to check out the not in membership.
Operator in the next video.
So see you there.